  
sir,
 At the outset i would like to express my gratitude and solidarity to CNBC?/TV18 for considering granting time to 
a more noble and less commercial subject like joining the indian navy and serving your motherland.
	
	  While i write this mail i have my apprehensions that the whole affair must be getting vetted by a communist like
like and imagination sapped officer in uniform who would have been sent with one point agenda 'speak good and only
good , f**k the truth'.  We all can imagine what life must have been like in the erstwhile soviet union or east germany
 (the adrenaline charged video footage of poeple rushing across the broke berlin wall can help ones imagination). The armed
forces are like a paralllel community in a democratic country but with communist (as communists are in practice not 
in books) colors. All are suppose to be comrades but then you know what the top echelon does.
    Be that as maybe, i would exort you neo-generation correspondents to do a service to the nation by also bringing out this one reality that i am most disturbed about. I dont see how it is too difficult to understand that hiding a dirty truth is not being good to your armed forces or the poeple of the nation. It is not washing dirty 
linen in public. These are our armed forces and we are talking about it amongst ourselves. 
 You, now in a career of your choice, will agree  that career counselling has to be done with a full appreciation of the aspirant and the job. The conselling has to be done by a person who has the faculty to have panoramic view and an unbiased at that. Just like  an equity investor camp is supposed to give an unbiased view. Poeple in uniform cannot do that largely  out of the rust that the system induces in them and also out of the multitude of archaic (british time) regulations being enthusiastically imposed upon them by themselves . Taufeeq in his dire moment was asked to shut up and not even talk about his personal matters !

A citizen in uniform cannot express an opinion yet at times he will pretend to because of orders not realising the damage he is doing t the truth and impressionable youngster. This is true be it here  on this type of show or  on NDTV cameras just before launching an attack on tiger hill. 
  Consider it your duty or path to controversy and hence more eye ball minutes (thats what matters to you i guess, i know i am being cynical). But you must try and make this program talk about the issue of getting out and not only getting in. 

 The young impressionable minds must not only know about the (mirage of) adventure and romance, they must also know that once they have volunteered to serve the nation and signed on the dotted line, they cannot step back be it after 10 days or 15 years of service. They are
ordered not to have change in calling in life, they are ordered to like blue color and not yellow. It is a 'chakrvyuh' where many a valiant and talented abhimanyus (indian precious human resource) are stuck doing task that are mundane and smack of sycophancy. The routines and regulations have not been revised for ages. Nobody has the inclination or the pressure to do it. No pressure  because no
one can leave  in huff or disgust. One can only dream of leaving within 16 yrs of service (that is without any ex-serviceman benefits) only if he can fabricate a story of marital discord or severely severly ailing parents. What a gratitude to a youngster who 'volunteers' to serve. I must mention that often officers leave by another means, by knowing the right poeple. It happens in cricket and luckily for some it happens there in Navy too.  Pse ask the respected former CNS Adm Madhvendra singh if recollects the name of Lt Cdr Magesh whom he bailed out because of a phone call from the governor of Rajasthan. If a youngster has volunteered to serve and if the country is not on the brink of hostilities, where is the justice in denying him the privilege of withdrawing his volutary service and switching his job without creating a traumatic ruckus ? Some more fired from their heart and aware of the limited span of human life have run away to chase their rightful destiny. Those otherwise honest, talented , dedicated indians (parents to some and children of some old parents) have been branded as 'deserters' or 'absconders'. What a way to convey gratitude. Some of us (suddenly and momemtarily patriotic indians) reason that such harshness is necessary for the countries well being. So 'its neccessity' and not 'fairness' that is the key. I see. Then would it not be nice if we had  some community as slaves ? or workers in factories who could not go on strike ? Milk them . It would give such high profits to our companies like the one state owned enterprises in china make.  It would be nice , for most of us no ? So why is this skewed law of necessity the burden of Indians  only for armed forces and not on the rest of us  indians for whose sake the armed forces patrol the high seas ? 
  I believe it should be viewed not from us and them point of view, as if its pakistan and india. As an indian citizen should i be forced to serve during peace time ? Vehemently i would  answer in the negative  and so you would any right thinking person. Many of us havent even ever volunteered to serve the armed forces, some of us just go on to play (say cricket) and then do Ads for their family and bank accounts. But no other indian is formally a bonded worker as is a naval officer or airman. I have met many and am pained to see how frustrated they and their parents are. They are our border guards ! 

   My gut feeling is that word has spread that armed forces is chakravyuh or a stinking quick sand that anybody  worth his parents upbringing must keep away with  a barge pole. And that is why the 'do you have it in you' campaign. An advertisement for a product that has more conditions than anyother venture/product in this country.  but the advert has no '*', saying 'conditions apply'. Does it deserve to be hauled to the consumer court ? i am not against the armed forces, i am for it and that is why i write this. They need to be improved for our sake. Why do you think kargill was such  a blunder ?

Theres much to write , but i guess i have driven home the key points. You must not believe that putting the dirt under the rug is cleaning. 
Tell those fired up youngsters that they are volunteers only till they havent signed on. Thereafter, their choice does not matter. Its a law of  nature,if the post office guys couldn't go on strike the govt would take them for a ride. Why else would they need to strike ? Well in the armed force since you cannot go on strike, i leave up to you to decide whether everyone gets his due or not. And remember you are not allowed to disembark. Die or suffer.

  Finally, ask the youngsters 'do you have it in you to be a bonded slave for atleast 20 years till you are either only good for further career in the Navy or no good for anywhere'. Use and throw would be an understatement. I have met many a middle aged ex Army and navy officers. It looks like they have been 'sucked dry and thrown'.

Really, boys 'do you have it in you to take this s**t' ? Its time to bring a modernisation of  armed forces rules and working. Bathed in artificial glory and they are actually creaking under  grip of a more puerile form of babudom.

You might be curious, i am an educationist , an indian and human being in the reverse order of priority.

-
JB

